site/docs/intro/helm.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
# Helm

_Helm is the best way to find, share, and use software built for Kubernetes._ - https://helm.sh

## Deploying apps in Kubernetes

In Kubernetes, resources such as pods (to run code) or services (for network accessibility) are defined in yaml. One or more documents can be submitted at a time.

So we might have one yaml file that defines our pod - with information about which container images to run, and another to setup a network service. finally we may have another that describes our storage requirements (a persistent volume claim
)

## What does Helm do?

Helm provides a way of bunding yaml files together into an archive, together with a templating mechanism to allow reuse of common patterns & ensure different yamls are consistent and can reference each other.

These archives are known as 'Charts' and can be hosted in a known format as a 'chart repository'. The archives are versioned.

Helm is basically focussed on creating yaml documents that are submitted to Kubernetes - it is not involved in the runtime of a Kubernetes environment. Once a helm app is installed, interaction is just with the regular kubernetes objects.

[Helm Commands](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm/) include options to
* install
* uninstall
* list
* search
* upgrade
* rollback

## Installing Helm

Some Kubernetes environments may install helm as part of their client tooling, refer to the docs to see if this is the case, and run `helm version` to check - expect to use v3 or above. If so, install can be skipped.

### MacOS

If using macOS with HomeBrew installed, helm can be simply installed with
```shell
brew install helm
```

### Other platforms (Linux, Windows)

See the [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) for more ways to install Helm

## Accessing the egeria charts repository

Our helm charts for Egeria are stored in a repository hosted on GitHub. The source for these is at https://github.com/odpi/egeria-charts , and as charts are updated they are automatically published to a GitHub pages Website (in fact this one!)

Note that if using microk8s, the helm (version 3) command is actually 'microk8s helm3' and similarly kubectl is 'microk8s kubectl'.

Run the following to add this repository
```shell
helm repo add egeria https://odpi.github.io/egeria-charts
```

Before searching or installing, always update your local copy of the repository
```shell
helm repo update egeria
```
You can now list released charts:
```shell
helm search repo egeria
```

or development charts (being worked on, or using code from master)
```shell
helm search repo egeria --devel
```
and install a chart that looks interesting - 
```shell
helm install egeria/<chart>
```
----
License: [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project.

Commit message:

Further updates to chart docs
Signed-off-by: Nigel Jones <nigel.l.jones+git@gmail.com>

site/docs/intro/helm.md, after:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
# Helm

_Helm is the best way to find, share, and use software built for Kubernetes._ - https://helm.sh

## Deploying apps in Kubernetes

In Kubernetes, resources such as pods (to run code) or services (for network accessibility) are defined in yaml. One or more documents can be submitted at a time.

So we might have one yaml file that defines our pod - with information about which container images to run, and another to setup a network service. finally we may have another that describes our storage requirements (a persistent volume claim
)

## What does Helm do?

Helm provides a way of bunding yaml files together into an archive, together with a templating mechanism to allow reuse of common patterns & ensure different yamls are consistent and can reference each other.

These archives are known as 'Charts' and can be hosted in a known format as a 'chart repository'. The archives are versioned.

Helm is basically focussed on creating yaml documents that are submitted to Kubernetes - it is not involved in the runtime of a Kubernetes environment. Once a helm app is installed, interaction is just with the regular kubernetes objects.

[Helm Commands](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm/) include options to
* install
* uninstall
* list
* search
* upgrade
* rollback

## helm under microk8s

microk8s qualifies the Helm command `helm` in that you need to use `microk8s helm3` so either
* When docs refer you to type `helm` then just use `microk8s helm3`
* add a shell alias ie `alias helm='microk8s helm3'` into ~/.zshrc or equivilent shell startup script - if this doesn't clash with your other usage of k8s.

If using this approach you not need to explicitly install Helm.

## Installing Helm

Some Kubernetes environments may install helm as part of their client tooling, refer to the docs to see if this is the case, and run `helm version` to check - expect to use v3 or above. If so, install can be skipped.

### MacOS

If using macOS with HomeBrew installed, helm can be simply installed with
```shell
brew install helm
```

### Other platforms (Linux, Windows)

See the [Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) for more ways to install Helm

## Accessing the egeria charts repository

Our helm charts for Egeria are stored in a repository hosted on GitHub. The source for these is at https://github.com/odpi/egeria-charts , and as charts are updated they are automatically published to a GitHub pages Website (in fact this one!)

Run the following to add this repository
```shell
helm repo add egeria https://odpi.github.io/egeria-charts
```

Before searching or installing, always update your local copy of the repository
```shell
helm repo update egeria
```
You can now list released charts:
```shell
helm search repo egeria
```

or development charts (being worked on, or using code from master)
```shell
helm search repo egeria --devel
```
and install a chart that looks interesting - 
```shell
helm install egeria/<chart>
```
----
License: [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project.
