odpi-egeria-vdc/README.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
# Chart for full Egeria Virtual Data Connector

This helm chart will deploy the following components:
* Apache Kafka
* An egeria Cohort with the following participants, all connected to the Kafka event bus & configured to exchange events & interoperate
    * Egeria
    * Apache Atlas (with native connector/event mapper)
    * IGC Event mapper & Connector (same Egeria code)
* Apache Ranger (mariaDB for storage, Solr for indexing)
* GaianDB
* PostGresSQL with sample data from coco pharmaceuticals

Additionally IBM Governance Catalog (IGC) 11.7 is required externally. Metadata from the postgresql data will be loaded into IGC automatically, as well as a suitable glossary for coco pharma. Ensure that vdc/templates/configmap.yaml is updated with the correct IP addresses for IGC.

You will require a kubernetes environment to install to. Testing has been done so far against
* IBMCloud (IKS)
* IBM Cloud Private (ICP 3.1)

This chart should work with other providers with the exception of the definitions around ingress/load balancing - which are how ports are made available external to the cluster

## Caveats

Ranger (including usersync, sync with egeria), Gaian, LDAP are currently not configured

## Additional configuration

* odpi-egeria-vdc/values.yaml is the main place to configure preferences. It is recommended to override values by creating a separate file and adding '-f myconfig.yml' or similar.
* odpi-egeria-vdc/templates/configmap.yaml currently contains some additional configuration which is not pulled in from values. 

## Required helm repositories (prereq)

```
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update
```

## Installing a chart

```
cd open-metadata-resources/open-metadata-deployment/charts
helm dependency update odpi-egeria-vdc
helm install odpi-egeria-vdc vdc
```

## Kafka

By default this chart uses the bitnami kafka chart. 

The chart can also be configured to use an external provider. So far this has only been tested with IBM Event Streams.

First create a kubernetes secret with the API key needed to use the kafka service, replacing 'MyReallyLongAPIKey' accordingly:

```
kubectl create secret generic auth-vdc-kafka --from-literal=username=token --from-literal=password=MyReallyLongAPIKey
```
Configure the following configuration overrides, replacing the 'brokers' value with the list of kafka brokers for your cloud service. The secret created above is also used.
```
kafka:
  internal:
    enabled: false
  external:
    enabled: true
    provider: "IBMEventStreams"
    brokers: "broker1:9093, broker2:9093, broker3:9093"
    secret: auth-vdc-kafka
```

When Egeria configures it's connector to use kafka, it will now set the following properties in addition to the list of brokers:
```
"security.protocol":"SASL_SSL",
"ssl.protocol":"TLSv1.2",
"ssl.enabled.protocols":"TLSv1.2",
"ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm":"HTTPS",
"sasl.jaas.config":"org.apache.kafka.common.security.plain.PlainLoginModule required username='${KAFKA_USER}' password='${KAFKA_PASS}';",
"sasl.mechanism":"PLAIN"
```
This fragment is generated using the parameters above by the template code in [kafkaext.tpl](templates/kafkaext.tpl).
For other cloud providers, you will need to update templates/_kafkaext.tpl and consider contributing back to the project!

## Load Balancing & Ingress

The current chart will by default use NodePort for external access. To configure an external load balancer / ingress service refer
to documentation specific to the cloud provider:

* IBM Cloud - See https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers/cs_ingress.html#ingress

Commit message:

#838 added info on topic names
Signed-off-by: Nigel Jones <nigel.l.jones+git@gmail.com>

odpi-egeria-vdc/README.md, after:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the ODPi Egeria project. -->
# Chart for full Egeria Virtual Data Connector

This helm chart will deploy the following components:
* Apache Kafka
* An egeria Cohort with the following participants, all connected to the Kafka event bus & configured to exchange events & interoperate
    * Egeria
    * Apache Atlas (with native connector/event mapper)
    * IGC Event mapper & Connector (same Egeria code)
* Apache Ranger (mariaDB for storage, Solr for indexing)
* GaianDB
* PostGresSQL with sample data from coco pharmaceuticals

Additionally IBM Governance Catalog (IGC) 11.7 is required externally. Metadata from the postgresql data will be loaded into IGC automatically, as well as a suitable glossary for coco pharma. Ensure that vdc/templates/configmap.yaml is updated with the correct IP addresses for IGC.

You will require a kubernetes environment to install to. Testing has been done so far against
* IBMCloud (IKS)
* IBM Cloud Private (ICP 3.1)

This chart should work with other providers with the exception of the definitions around ingress/load balancing - which are how ports are made available external to the cluster

## Caveats

Ranger (including usersync, sync with egeria), Gaian, LDAP are currently not configured

## Additional configuration

* odpi-egeria-vdc/values.yaml is the main place to configure preferences. It is recommended to override values by creating a separate file and adding '-f myconfig.yml' or similar.
* odpi-egeria-vdc/templates/configmap.yaml currently contains some additional configuration which is not pulled in from values. 

## Required helm repositories (prereq)

```
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update
```

## Installing a chart

```
cd open-metadata-resources/open-metadata-deployment/charts
helm dependency update odpi-egeria-vdc
helm install odpi-egeria-vdc vdc
```

## Kafka

By default this chart uses the bitnami kafka chart. 

The chart can also be configured to use an external provider. So far this has only been tested with IBM Event Streams.

First create a kubernetes secret with the API key needed to use the kafka service, replacing 'MyReallyLongAPIKey' accordingly:

```
kubectl create secret generic auth-vdc-kafka --from-literal=username=token --from-literal=password=MyReallyLongAPIKey
```
Configure the following configuration overrides, replacing the 'brokers' value with the list of kafka brokers for your cloud service. The secret created above is also used.
```
kafka:
  internal:
    enabled: false
  external:
    enabled: true
    provider: "IBMEventStreams"
    brokers: "broker1:9093, broker2:9093, broker3:9093"
    secret: auth-vdc-kafka
```

When Egeria configures it's connector to use kafka, it will now set the following properties in addition to the list of brokers:
```
"security.protocol":"SASL_SSL",
"ssl.protocol":"TLSv1.2",
"ssl.enabled.protocols":"TLSv1.2",
"ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm":"HTTPS",
"sasl.jaas.config":"org.apache.kafka.common.security.plain.PlainLoginModule required username='${KAFKA_USER}' password='${KAFKA_PASS}';",
"sasl.mechanism":"PLAIN"
```
This fragment is generated using the parameters above by the template code in [kafkaext.tpl](templates/kafkaext.tpl).
For other cloud providers, you will need to update templates/_kafkaext.tpl and consider contributing back to the project!

Topics may need to be manually configured - for more details see [topic connector readme](../../../../open-metadata-implementation/adapters/open-connectors/event-bus-connectors/open-metadata-topic-connectors/kafka-open-metadata-topic-connector/README.md)

## Load Balancing & Ingress

The current chart will by default use NodePort for external access. To configure an external load balancer / ingress service refer
to documentation specific to the cloud provider:

* IBM Cloud - See https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers/cs_ingress.html#ingress
